Move Obstacles settings from Rendering to Placement tab (#5550)
qgis/QGIS-Documentation: docs/user_manual/style_library/label_settings.rst

.. _`labels_priority`:

Priority
........

In the :guilabel:`Priority` section you can define the placement priority rank
of each label, ie if there are different labels candidates for the same
location, the label with the higher priority will be displayed and the
others could be left out.
The priority rank is also used to evaluate whether a label could be omitted
due to a greater weighted :ref:`obstacle feature <labels_obstacles>`.

.. _`labels_obstacles`:

Obstacles
.........

In some contexts (eg, high density labels, overlapping features...), the
labels placement can result in labels being placed over unrelated features.

An obstacle is a feature over which QGIS avoids placing other features' labels
or diagrams. This can be controlled from the :guilabel:`Obstacles` section:

#. Activate the |checkbox| :guilabel:`Discourage labels from covering features`
   option to decide whether features of the layer should act as obstacles for
   any label (including labels from other features in the same layer).

   Instead of the whole layer, you can select a subset of features to use as
   obstacles, using the |dataDefined| :sup:`data-defined override` control next
   to the option.

> #. Use the :guilabel:`Settings` button to tweak the obstacles weighing.

Author: ```suggestion
#. Use the :guilabel:`Settings` button to tweak the obstacles weighting.
```

> #. Use the :guilabel:`Settings` button to tweak the obstacles weighting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Use the :guilabel:`Settings` button to tweak the obstacle's weighting.
```

   * For every potential obstacle feature you can assign an :guilabel:`Obstacle
     weight`: any :ref:`label <labels_priority>` or :ref:`diagram <diagram_placement>`
     whose placement priority rank is greater than this value can be placed
     over. Labels or diagrams with lower rank will be omitted if no other
     placement is possible.

>      This weighing can also be data-defined, so that within the same layer,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     This weighting can also be data-defined, so that within the same layer,
```

   Label placement examples in polygons

Common placement settings
-------------------------

> Some common settings are available to position a label regardless its underlying

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some label placement settings are available for all
```

> layer geometry type:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
layer geometry types:
```

This placement option interacts with the labels from other vector layers in
the map canvas. If there are labels from different layers in the same
location, the label with the higher priority will be displayed and the
others will be left out.

.. _`label_obstacles`:

Obstacles
.........

An obstacle is a feature QGIS tries as far as possible to not place labels over.
From the :guilabel:`Obstacles` frame, you can manage the covering relation
between labels and features.

Activate the |checkbox| :guilabel:`Discourage labels from covering features`
option to decide whether features of the layer should act as obstacles for
any label (including labels from other features in the same layer).

Instead of the whole layer, you can define a subset of features to use as obstacles,
using the |dataDefined| :sup:`data-defined override` control next to the option.

Use the :guilabel:`Settings` button to tweak the obstacles weighing.

* The |slider| priority control slider for obstacles allows you to make labels
  prefer to overlap features from certain layers rather than others.
  A **Low weight** obstacle priority means that features of the layer are less

>   considered as obstacles and thus more likely to be covered by labels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  important obstacles and thus more likely to be covered by labels.
```

  This priority can also be data-defined, so that within the same layer,
  certain features are more likely to be covered than others.

> * For polygon layers, you can choose the type of obstacle the features could be,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For polygon layers, you can choose the kind of obstacle the feature is:
```

>   by minimising the labels placement:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  * **over the feature's interior**: avoids placing labels over the interior of
    the polygon (prefers placing labels totally outside or just slightly inside
    the polygon)

>   * or **over the feature's boundary**: avoids placing labels over boundary of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * or **over the feature's boundary**: avoids placing labels over the boundary of
```

    the polygon (prefers placing labels outside or completely inside the

>     polygon). E.g., it can be useful for regional boundary layers, where the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    polygon). This can be useful for layers where the
```

>     features cover an entire area. In this case, it's impossible to avoid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    features cover the whole area (administrative units, categorical coverages, ...). In this case, it is impossible to avoid
```

>     placing labels within these features, and it looks much better to avoid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    placing labels within these features, and it looks much better when
```

>     placing them over the boundaries between features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    placing them over the boundaries between features is avoided.
```

of each label, ie if there are different labels candidates for the same
location, the label with the higher priority will be displayed and the
others could be left out.
The priority rank is also used to evaluate whether a label could be omitted
due to a greater weighted :ref:`obstacle feature <labels_obstacles>`.

.. _`labels_obstacles`:

Obstacles
.........

In some contexts (eg, high density labels, overlapping features...), the
labels placement can result in labels being placed over unrelated features.

An obstacle is a feature over which QGIS avoids placing other features' labels
or diagrams. This can be controlled from the :guilabel:`Obstacles` section:

#. Activate the |checkbox| :guilabel:`Discourage labels from covering features`
   option to decide whether features of the layer should act as obstacles for
   any label (including labels from other features in the same layer).

   Instead of the whole layer, you can select a subset of features to use as
   obstacles, using the |dataDefined| :sup:`data-defined override` control next
   to the option.

#. Use the :guilabel:`Settings` button to tweak the obstacles weighing.

>    * You can assign to every potential obstacle feature an :guilabel:`Obstacle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * For every potential obstacle feature you can assign an :guilabel:`Obstacle
```

     weight`: any :ref:`label <labels_priority>` or :ref:`diagram <diagram_placement>`
     whose placement priority rank is greater than this value can be placed

>      over. Labels or diagrams with lower rank will be removed if no other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     over. Labels or diagrams with lower rank will be omitted if no other
```
